## Scott Waechter
## COS 452 Final Project

# Topic: Terrain generation and destruction in the shaders

### [Click this link to open the game in your browser, hosted on GitHub](https://awaechter.github.io/minor-god/)

This project was done with Javascript, the Three.js library, GLSL shaders, and HTML, for COS 420: Computer Graphics at USM.

Minor God is a game in which you move a giant hand made of simple geometry around an island, smiting the land with lightning as you please. There are also sea-level controls. The island's terrain is generated by a noise function in the vertex shader, and the colours are determined in the fragment shader.

My goal was to do as much generation as possible using noise in the shaders. What interested me was the challenge and the reward of working in GLSL shaders -they are more finicky than javascript, and have more unusual rules, but allow you to process so much so beautifully inside the GPU. I was also particularly interested in terrain deformation.

This was mostly an exercise in using Three.js, and GLSL shaders, but given more time I would have liked to improve the experience of it with sound, better lighting, better terrain texture and colour, better movement, etc. I also wanted to apply a vertex shader to the water to create waves.

This project was done in Fall 2019.

The next steps are:
* Try to get so that the crater appears closer to the crosshair - right now, the crater appears on top of where the crosshair would touch the original terrain plane before it reached the vertex shader.
* Add slider for mountain height.
* Try to pass the smite points to the shader in an array, rather than as a fixed number of distinct similar uniforms. (Ran into trouble with the uniform array in the shader before).
* Create water effects.
* Make the lighting better.
* Add a sound effect.

References

https://github.com/ashima/webgl-noise/blob/master/src/classicnoise3D.glsl for Perlin Noise methods

https://www.clicktorelease.com/blog/vertex-displacement-noise-3d-webgl-glsl-three-js/ for code to use Perlin Noise

Threejs examples

https://academo.org/demos/3d-surface-plotter/ to help plot cosine functions
